h2. Elements

endprologue.

h3. What are elements?

Elements can be rendered on a page directly (or in a cell that is rendered on a page).

Normally an element contains one or more essences of a specific type. There are essences for every type of data that can be stored in the database. When talking about essences - and not talking about a specific essence-type - we are talking about element´s contents.

Elements are defined in the <code>/config/alchemy/elements.yml</code> file. The file is pretty well documentated, so please take a look in there for the usage and the correct syntax.

After defining an element, you can take use of the rails generator Alchemy CMS is shipped with:

<shell>
rails g alchemy:elements --skip
</shell>

The generator will create two files for every element in your <code>/app/views/elements</code> folder: One file is named like myelement_view.html.erb and the second file is named like <code>myelement_editor.html.erb</code>.

The generator does not only create empty files, it also generates the necessary code for you. Mostly you can take use of this generated code in the *_view partials and make them nifty by putting some CSS stylings on it.

The element´s *_view file will be rendered in the frontend, when a user requests your webpage. The element´s *_editor file will be rendered in the backend, when you edit the page where the element is placed on.

You can often pass parameters to the helper methods that are getting called in these partials. If you want to know more about the helper methods and their option-parameters, you can take a look at these page where the most used helpers with their options are listed. Alternativly you can take a closer look at "http://rubydoc.info/github/magiclabs/alchemy_cms":http://rubydoc.info/github/magiclabs/alchemy_cms where you can find the helpers sourcecode.