h2. How to work with Alchemy CMS (best practices)

endprologue.

h3. Conceptual page and content structuring

When working with Alchemy CMS the very first thing the webdeveloper conceptually does is splitting the website´s layout into different types (called page layouts).

Every page which is structurally different to other, should get its own page-layout. A page-layout is a html template with specified properties.
"More about PageLayouts »":page_layouts.html

After that the developer will look deeper to the content and will perhaps split the pages into cells.
Cells can be rendered on page-layouts and are acting as containers for elements.
"More about Cells »":cells.html

In any case the developer splits the content into elements. That means grouping the smallest parts of the website (the contents), e.g. content section or an image slider.
Elements are containers for essences (called contents) and can be rendered on page-layouts or in cells.
"More about Elements »":elements.html

A content is the smallest part in Alchemy and refers to one of the essence-types Alchemy CMS provides (EssenceText, EssencePicure, EssenceRichtext, ...).
"More about Essences »":essences.html

h3. Examples

h4. Create Blog template

Websites often contain blog pages. If you like to find out how to create a blog page using Alchemy, visit "Best Practice: Create a Blog Template":best_practice_create_blog_template.html

h4. Create form (contact)

In order to offer your visitors the opportunity to contact you, its quite common to provide a contact form
instead of just display your email.
"Best Practice: Create a form":best_practice_create_form.html

h4. Create image-slider

Most of the intro pages contain kinds of slider. Visit "Best Practice: Create an image-slider":best_practice_create_image_slider.html for futher information.

h4. Using the implemented fulltext search

INFO: under construction

&nbsp;
