h2. Alchemy´s Architecture

Alchemy is the most user friendly and flexible Rails based CMS today. In this guide you will learn about Alchemy's powerful features:

* The flexible content storing architecture
* The image processing magick®
* Caching
* The ressources controller

endprologue.

h3. Rails Engine

Since the Alchemy CMS project started, it is a Rails engine.
Rails 3.1 brought the possibility for namespacing and mounting of Rails engines.
Since Alchemy CMS v2.1 it is now a mountable and completely namespaced Rails engine.

h3. The Core modules

Alchemy CMS comes with six core modules:

# "Pages":pages.html
# Languages
# Sites
# Users
# Tags
# Library (Pictures & Attachments)

The core modules can be extended by own modules.
A module should be a Rails engine that registers themself at Alchemy.
Read more about "creating own modules":create_modules.html.

h3. Storing architecture

Alchemy stores content. Period. Really, that's it.

Unlike many other CMS's that store a whole page body with complete html markup from one of these a fancy WYSIWYG editors out there, Alchemy only stores unformatted text, ids of objects (like attachments and pictures) and only some richtext content in the database. No html markup, no css, no styling, no layout. Just pure content.

The webdeveloper is in full control of the markup and styling. The editor just manages the content.

Isn't that what CMS really should mean?

h3. The Rendering Process en Detail

Alchemy strongly uses the Rails partial rendering mechanism. It has no own templating language and no <i>special files</i>.

When rendering a Page the Alchemy renders these files:

# <code>app/views/layouts/application.html.erb</code>
# <code>app/views/alchemy/page_layouts/_THE_NAME_OF_THE_PAGES_PAGE_LAYOUT.html.erb</code>
# <code>app/views/alchemy/elements/_THE_NAME_OF_THE_ELEMENT_view.html.erb</code>

NOTE: Since Alchemy 2.4 you can use Slim and HAML views as well.

INFO: Alchemy comes with tons of useful helpers that render these partials for you. For further information please "have a look into the PagesHelper documentation":http://rdoc.info/github/magiclabs/alchemy_cms/Alchemy/PagesHelper.html

h3. Processing images

Alchemy uses RMagick (the Ruby ImageMagick library) and Dragonfly (a powerful image processing gem) to render images.

Images are stored as master images in the pictury library. The editor just assigns these master images to content elements you provide. You also set the image rendering bounderies. The max width and heigth values, or even the size an image should be cropped to. Alchemy even comes with a fancy Javascript based image cropper tool, so that your customer can define the mask to be used.

"Read more about how can use the powerful image processing tools":render_images.html.

h3. Caching

If not deactivated in the "configuration":configuration.html, Alchemy uses Rails action_caching for fast content delivering.
This will cache all "page layout":page_layouts.html partials where "cells":cells.html and "elements":elements.html are rendered on.

h3. Ressources Controller

Since Alchemy v2.1 there is a ressources controller available. When developing own modules for Alchemy,
your controller can inherit from that ressources controller (<code>Alchemy::Admin::RessourcesController</code>) and will get all the rails-like CRUD methods.

The standard partials for the backend views are also getting rendered. They can be overwritten in your app, just use the expected filenames and variables.

Read more details of the ressources controller in the "module development":creating_modules.html guide.
