h2. Best Practice: How to create an image slider

An image slider is often used on intro pages. This guide covers:

* Enable Javascript
* Define slider


h3. Conceptual page and content structuring

Imagine you would like to welcome your visitors with a slide show with
impressive pictures.

The following steps use the orbit slider provided by "Foundation Zurb":http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/components/orbit.html (© ZURB, Inc).
Have a look at "Best Practice: Create a Blog Template":best_practice_create_blog_template.html#prerequisites in order to integrate Foundation Zurb into your project.


endprologue.

h3. Prerequisites

First of all you have to enable Javascript in your application.
Add the following lines to your <code>application.js</code> in
<code>app/assets/javascript/</code>:

<pre>
//= require jquery
//= require foundation

$(document).foundation();
</pre>

Open <code>application.html.erb</code> in <code>app/views/layouts</code> and add the following lines if they don't exist:

<pre>
<head>
  ...
  <%= stylesheet_link_tag 'application' %>
  ...
</head>
<body>
  ...
  <%= javascript_include_tag 'application' %>
  ...
</body>
 </pre>

By now Javascript, especially the foundation library is included in your Alchemy application.

h3. Define element

Afterwards we define the slider element(in <code>config/alchemy/</code>)

<pre>
- name: slider
  unique: true
  picture_gallery: true
</pre>

The definition is quite short. We just have to declare <code>picture_gallery: true</code>
and Alchemy does the rest.

h3. Generate and customize the partials

Run the command
<shell>rails g alchemy:elements -skip </shell>
to generate the (view and editor) partials.

Open the view partial <code>_slider_view.html.erb</code> in <code>app/views/alchemy/elements</code>
and edit to:

<pre>
<div class="orbit-container">
  <ul data-orbit="" class="orbit-slides-container">
  <% element.contents.gallery_pictures.each do |image| %>
    <li>
      <%= render_essence_view(image, image_size: '1000x400', crop: true) %>
    </li>
  <% end %>
  </ul>
</div>
</pre>
In this view partial we use a loop, in order to iterate through the pictures in the gallery.
We use <code>render_essence_view</code> to render the image (See "documentation":http://rubydoc.info/github/magiclabs/alchemy_cms/Alchemy/EssencesHelper for further information).

# <code>:image_size</code> the preferred image size
# <code>:crop</code> enables the selection of an image section (in the backend)

We use the <code>div</code>-Container due to the availabe css defintions.
We already included the CSS definition by Foundation Zurb in "Best Practice Create a Blog Template":best_practice_create_blog_template.html#prerequisites, so please make up for it.

Open the editor partial <code>_slider_editor.html.erb</code> in <code>app/views/alchemy/elements</code> and edit to:

<pre>
<%= render_picture_gallery_editor(element, image_size: '1000x400', crop: true) %>
</pre>

Define a page layout for your contact page in the page_layouts.yml file, e.g. :

<pre>
- name: intro
  elements: [slider, content]
</pre>
or add to <code>elements:</code> array of an existing page layout.

Create a new page layout file <code>_intro.html.erb</code> in <code>app/views/alchemy/page_layouts</code>. If you are looking forward to rebuild the "Foundation Zurb Orbit Home Template":http://foundation.zurb.com/page-templates4/orbithome.html , just copy the "raw HTML Code":https://gist.github.com/ghaida/5054559/raw/d5b0ce5d509ec152acdb441447bc3b00aef4bdae/gistfile1.html into your <code>_intro.html.erb</code>.

h3. Embed the slider in your page layout

After defining the 'slider' element you can integrate it in the page layout(recently created <code>_intro.html.erb</code>).
It might look like this:

<pre>
<!-- First Band (Slider) -->

<div class="row">
  <div class="large-12 columns">
  <div id="slider">
         <%= render_elements only: 'slider' %>
  </div>

  <hr />
  </div>
</div>
</pre>


Now you can run
<shell>rails server</shell>

to start the server.

*Build your slider using the defined element.*




















