h2. Alchemys Standardset

This guides explains Alchemys storing architecture and gives an overview of all elements that com with the standard set Alchemy has to quikcly start a new project.

endprologue.

h3. How Alchemy organizes the content

First of all you have to understand Alchemys content storing archtitecture.

A webpage is more then just a page of content. It has sections like header parts, text parts, sidebars, image galleries and so on.

With Alchemy a webdeveloper can split the parts of a web page into elements and in even smaller parts - so called contents. These contents can be of one
of the essence types Alchemy provides.

h4. Essence types Alchemy has build in

* EssenceText
* EssenceRichtext
* EssencePicture
* EssenceHtml
* EssenceDate
* EssenceFile
* EssenceVideo
* EssenceAudio
* EssenceFlash

NOTE: A Webdeveloper can easily add more Essences to Alchemy. But we think this is pretty much all you need for a modern website.

h4. A CMS build extra for you

With these essences a webdeveloper builds your custom set of elements. Depending of your personal webdesign you will get elements to manage your content with.

h4. The Standardset

Alchemy comes with a standard set of elements and page layouts to begin with. This is a good place to start your own custom layout and page structure.

h5. Elements in the standard set:

* Article
** intro
*** EssenceText
** headline
*** EssenceText
** image
*** EssencePicture
** text
*** EssenceRichtext

* Intro image with text
** unique: true
** headline
*** EssenceText
** image
*** EssencePicture
** text
*** EssenceRichtext
  
* Text
** text
*** EssenceRichtext

* Image
** image
*** EssencePicture

* Text with image
** image
*** EssencePicture
** text
*** EssenceRichtext

* Headline
** headline
*** EssenceText

* Image Mosaic
** image
*** EssencePicture
** caption
*** EssenceText

* Footnote
** unique Element
** note
*** EssenceRichtext

* sitename
  unique: true
**
  * name
    type: EssenceText

* claim
  unique: true
**
  * claim
    type: EssenceText

* header
  unique: true
**
  * image
    type: EssencePicture

* intro
**
  * intro
    type: EssenceRichtext

* subheadline
**
  * subheadline
    type: EssenceText

* news
**
  * date
    type: EssenceDate
  * news_headline
    type: EssenceText
  * body
    type: EssenceRichtext

* searchresult
  unique: true

* contactform
  unique: true
**
  * mail_from
    type: EssenceText
    validate: [presence]
  * mail_to
    type: EssenceText
    validate: [presence]
  * subject
    type: EssenceText
    validate: [presence]
  * success_page
    type: EssenceText
    validate: [presence]
