h2. Standard-Set (website out of the box)

This guide covers the built-in website Alchemy CMS comes with.

endprologue.


h3. What is the Standard-Set

It is a demo website which can be used out of the box.
The same demo website can be visited online: "Demo of Alchemy CMS":http://alchemy-cms.com/en/demo.
The Standard-Set is a collection of predefined "page layouts":page_layouts.html (templates) and "elements":elements.html.

Element definitions: <code>/config/alchemy/elements.yml</code><br />
Corresponding element-view partials: <code>/app/views/alchemy/elements/</code>

Page-layout definitions: <code>/config/alchemy/page_layouts.yml</code><br />
And their corresponding view partials: <code>/app/views/alchemy/page_layouts/</code>

h3. How to use it

When installing Alchemy CMS you immediatelly have access to the Standard-Set.<br />
You can log in to the backend and create new pages and can place elements on it.

h3. How to get it

there are two ways to get the files of the Standard-Set to your application.

h4. if copied the files while installation

If you have used the "Alchemy CMS installation routine":getting_started.html#create-a-new-application and have decided to "copy all the standard-set files to your application", 
you already have the files in the locations mentioned above.

h4. If not copied the files while installation

If you didnt choose "copy the files of the Standard-Set to your application", you do not have the files in your application, but the Standard-Set is also available for use. 
The views and yml files are getting parsed from the gem.

But also after the installation you can run the rake task for copying the files to your application.

<shell>
rake alchemy:standard_set:install
</shell>
